README.md, before:

# Why I built this

“I built this tool to explore how open-source LLMs can be used for real developer workflows without relying on paid APIs.”

# AI Codebase Assistant — Production-Ready Code Generation

A standalone, production-ready web tool designed for senior engineers and architects. It uses Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to understand entire repositories and generate complete, production-ready code implementations.

## 🚀 Key Features

- **Codebase RAG**: Deep understanding of your local repository via background indexing and semantic search.
- **Production-Ready Code**: Generates full, copy-pasteable implementations without skeletons or TODOs.
- **Structured Output**: Strict JSON validation and auto-recovery for deterministic LLM responses.
- **Security-First**: Path traversal protection, file size limits, and sanitization of AI-generated content.
- **Service-Oriented Architecture**: Clear separation between UI, API, LLM orchestration, and vector storage.

## 🏗️ Architecture

The project is built with a focus on maintainability, security, and scalability:

- **Frontend**: Next.js (TypeScript) with modular components (`TaskInput`, `ResultViewer`) and Tailwind CSS for a professional UI.
- **Backend**: FastAPI (Python) using a service-layer pattern (`CodeGenerationService`).
- **Vector Store**: In-memory vector store with persistence (ChromaDB) for high-speed local retrieval.
- **LLM Orchestration**: Centralized prompts and robust parsing logic in `llm_client.py` and `services.py`.
- **Configuration**: Environment-based configuration using `pydantic-settings`.

## 🛠️ Quick Start

### 1. Requirements
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) (recommended for local inference)

### 2. Setup
Clone the repository and run:

```bash
# Start the entire stack (Backend + Frontend + Ollama)
docker compose up --build
```

### 3. Usage
1. Open `http://localhost:3000/assistant` in your browser.
2. Enter a coding task (e.g., "Implement a new authentication middleware using JWT").
3. View the generated summary, assumptions, and affected files.
4. Copy or download the generated code.

## ⚙️ Configuration

The application can be configured via `.env` file or environment variables:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OLLAMA_URL` | `http://localhost:11434` | URL for the local Ollama service |
| `OLLAMA_MODEL` | `qwen2.5:14b` | LLM model to use for generation |
| `MAX_FILE_SIZE_MB` | `10` | Maximum size for uploaded/generated files |
| `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` | `["http://localhost:3000"]` | CORS allowed origins |

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Run frontend tests
cd frontend
npm test
```

## 🔒 Security

- **No Code Execution**: The assistant only generates code; it never executes it on your host machine.
- **Path Sanitization**: All file paths generated by the AI are sanitized to prevent directory traversal.
- **Input Validation**: Strict Pydantic schemas for all API requests and responses.

## 📝 License

MIT

Commit message:

docs: update README with expanded tool descriptions and features
Add detailed descriptions for both AI tools in the suite, including their key features and architecture principles. The update provides clearer documentation of the project's capabilities and value proposition.

README.md, after:

# Why I built this

“I built this tool to explore how open-source LLMs can be used for real developer workflows without relying on paid APIs. This repository contains two powerful AI tools: **AI Codebase Assistant** for development and **Document Q&A** for general RAG capabilities.”

# 🛠️ AI Tools Suite

This repository provides a unified workspace for AI-powered development and document analysis.

---

## 1. AI Codebase Assistant — Production-Ready Code Generation

A standalone, production-ready web tool designed for senior engineers and architects. It uses Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) to understand entire repositories and generate complete, production-ready code implementations.

### 🚀 Key Features

- **Codebase RAG**: Deep understanding of your local repository via background indexing and semantic search.
- **Production-Ready Code**: Generates full, copy-pasteable implementations without skeletons or TODOs.
- **Structured Output**: Strict JSON validation and auto-recovery for deterministic LLM responses.
- **Database Expertise**: Generates SQL schemas, migrations, and architecture designs (including greenfield projects).
- **Security-First**: Path traversal protection, file size limits, and sanitization of AI-generated content.
- **Service-Oriented Architecture**: Clear separation between UI, API, LLM orchestration, and vector storage.

---

## 2. Document Q&A (Local RAG) — Knowledge Management

A versatile RAG tool for interacting with your personal or project documents. Upload PDFs, DOCX, or TXT files and ask questions grounded strictly in your data.

### 📚 Key Features

- **Multi-Format Support**: Ingest `.pdf`, `.docx`, and `.txt` files seamlessly.
- **Strict Grounding**: Answers are generated based only on the uploaded document context to minimize hallucinations.
- **Metadata Tracking**: View exactly which documents and chunks were used to generate an answer.
- **Document Management**: Easily list, manage, and delete indexed documents via a dedicated dashboard.
- **Privacy-First**: All document processing and embeddings stay on your local machine.

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

The project is built with a focus on maintainability, security, and scalability:

- **Frontend**: Next.js (TypeScript) with modular components (`TaskInput`, `ResultViewer`) and Tailwind CSS for a professional UI.
- **Backend**: FastAPI (Python) using a service-layer pattern (`CodeGenerationService`).
- **Vector Store**: In-memory vector store with persistence (ChromaDB) for high-speed local retrieval.
- **LLM Orchestration**: Centralized prompts and robust parsing logic in `llm_client.py` and `services.py`.
- **Configuration**: Environment-based configuration using `pydantic-settings`.

## 🛠️ Quick Start

### 1. Requirements
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) (recommended for local inference)

### 2. Setup
Clone the repository and run:

```bash
# Start the entire stack (Backend + Frontend + Ollama)
docker compose up --build
```

### 3. Usage
1. Open `http://localhost:3000/assistant` in your browser.
2. Enter a coding task (e.g., "Implement a new authentication middleware using JWT").
3. View the generated summary, assumptions, and affected files.
4. Copy or download the generated code.

## ⚙️ Configuration

The application can be configured via `.env` file or environment variables:

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `OLLAMA_URL` | `http://localhost:11434` | URL for the local Ollama service |
| `OLLAMA_MODEL` | `qwen2.5:14b` | LLM model to use for generation |
| `MAX_FILE_SIZE_MB` | `10` | Maximum size for uploaded/generated files |
| `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` | `["http://localhost:3000"]` | CORS allowed origins |

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Run frontend tests
cd frontend
npm test
```

## 🔒 Security

- **No Code Execution**: The assistant only generates code; it never executes it on your host machine.
- **Path Sanitization**: All file paths generated by the AI are sanitized to prevent directory traversal.
- **Input Validation**: Strict Pydantic schemas for all API requests and responses.

## 📝 License

MIT
